Welcome dear brothers and sisters, I'm so happy to share with you this update.
It's been amazing to see the kingdom work move ahead even during this pandemic.
Various branches are reporting all-time peaks in the number of publishers, pioneers, meeting attendants, and Bible studies.
Many have reported peaks in the memorial attendance.
For example, the Philippines branch reported that over 739,000 attended the memorial this year.
That's more than three times the number of publishers.
100 congregations, mostly in urban areas, reported a memorial attendance of at least 500.
That means that 50,000 attended the memorial in just those 100 congregations.
In various parts of the earth, many struggle to obtain food.
With the assistance of hundreds of disaster relief committees, we continue to help our brothers.
For example, in Venezuela, each month we are providing an average of 130 tons of food to 25,000 brothers in need.
One 90-year-old pioneer sister said, I know that the aid comes from Jehovah, but he uses brothers that I do not even know.
And yet they love me and help me.
Thank you dear family.
It's heartwarming to see how Jehovah is helping our brothers and sisters in Venezuela and around the globe.
We thank all of you for making that possible by means of your donations.
In our last governing body update Brother Heard mentioned that about 50% of the worldwide Bethel family have been vaccinated so far.
Initially, it seemed impossible to obtain vaccines in some countries of the world,
but it's been amazing to see that now more than 80% of our worldwide Bethel family,
that is more than 19,000 Bethelites, are vaccinated and we are doing what we can to assist the branch offices that have not been able to obtain vaccines.
As you know, by keeping the Bethel family safe, we protect the flow of spiritual food and support spiritual activities worldwide.
On behalf of the governing body, thank you dear brothers and sisters for your tremendous cooperation with all the arrangements during the pandemic.
There have been many adjustments in a short time, but you have done so well.
We truly love you for your fine spirit in working shoulder to shoulder with us.
While we all have had changes in our routine, some of our circuit overseers who serve in foreign lands have had major changes.
They had to return to their home countries during the pandemic.
Even so, some continue to serve the congregations in their circuits via Zoom,
despite being in a different country and in a different time zone.
Let's hear from one.
A few months into the pandemic, my father's health was failing.
So we made the decision to return to the states and assist my mother.
Although in the beginning, we didn't think we would be here so long.
It turned out that the surge in the pandemic prevented us from going back to our assignment in the circuit in Bolivia.
Well, being this place, we just weren't sure if we were going to be able to serve and complete our assignment effectively.
We felt that we needed to make the necessary adjustments to have the right attitude.
So Fervent Prayer really helped us to get the right mindset
and being able to see how Jehovah answered those prayers is very faith-strengthening.
Jehovah is blessing this arrangement.
It's the arrangement that's been put in place and it's what we're using.
We're making the best of it, but we're having success because Jehovah is behind it.
We've had brothers who are now qualified to be publishers, unbaptized publishers.
There's brothers who've dedicated their lives and gotten baptized during this pandemic.
One brother in particular has so much enthusiasm for phone witnessing that last month he was able to report over 100 return visits
and he was able to show over 200 videos to different ones.
One Bible student loves her study so much
and also attending meetings that she's willing to walk one hour each way
in order to have a good signal on her phone so she can tie into her study and also to the meetings.
Throughout this past year I've learned that Jehovah has never left us.
He's been in total control of every situation.
He's been able to direct his organization, his people exactly in the place that we need to be.
This has all been proof that Jehovah will never abandon us.
How encouraging to hear how our brothers are remaining united and spiritually active.
But we do have to continue to guard our unity.
What is unity?
It's been defined as oneness, a condition of harmony.
Note how the Apostle Paul describes our role in maintaining unity at Ephesians chapter 4 verse 3.
There we read,
earnestly endeavoring to maintain the oneness of the Spirit in the uniting bond of peace.
Note that it takes effort to maintain our unity.
Paul said that we must earnestly endeavor or work hard at it.
What could pose a danger to our unity?
What if we became too emotionally involved in issues that are divisive?
The Bible foretold at 2 Timothy chapter 3 that men would be lovers of themselves,
not open to any agreement and fears.
We see this in the world today.
People are not open to any agreement.
They quickly become fierce,
taking strong positions on all types of issues.
As Christians, we are no part of the world.
We stay out of those debates.
For example, who would have thought that wearing a mask to prevent the spread of disease could become an issue?
From the time when we were little children, our parents taught us to cover our mouth when we coughed or sneezed.
In his precious word, Jehovah outlined many practical measures that would prevent the spread of disease.
So how could wearing a mask become controversial for some?
Where is that thinking coming from?
We have to be careful.
All of us are exposed to worldly thinking on television, on the internet, at work, or at school.
There are many websites that promote conspiracy theories.
If we are not careful, we could become emotionally involved in these debates.
We could allow ourselves to be guided by the voice of strangers, instead of listening to Jehovah's Channel, the faithful and discreet slave.
As we face the end of this system of things, this will become more and more essential to our safety and spirituality.
That's why we appreciate you dear brothers and sisters so much.
As soon as you discern that Jehovah's Spirit is directing the governing body to go in a certain way, you are quick to follow.
And as a result, we enjoy precious unity.
This reminds me of the Bible example of Nehaman.
Through a messenger, the prophet Elisha told Nehaman,
it be healed from his leprosy if he bathed seven times in the Jordan River.
How did Nehaman react?
Let's read together, 2 Kings 5, 11 and 12.
At this Nehaman became indignant and started to leave, saying,
here I say to myself, he will come out to me and stand here and call on the name of Jehovah, his God, moving his hand back and forth over the leprosy to cure it.
Are not the abayna and the far power, the rivers of Damascus better than all the waters of Israel?
Can I not wash in them and become clean? With that he turned and went away in a rage.
Nehaman had his own idea about how he was going to be cured.
He felt strongly about it, but Jehovah had a different idea.
To be cured Nehaman would have to humble himself and follow direction from Jehovah's Channel.
Nehaman was struggling, but his servants got the point.
What did they tell him to do? And what was the result?
Let's read in verses 13 and 14.
His servants now approached him and said,
my father, if the prophet had told you to do something extraordinary, would you not do it?
How much more than since he only said to you, wash and be clean?
At that he went down and plunged into the Jordan seven times according to the word of the man of the true God.
Then his flesh was restored like the flesh of a little boy and he became clean.
Do we get the point? Like Nehaman, we might struggle a bit at times, especially if we have our own strong viewpoint.
But one thing is certain, if we follow direction coming from Jehovah's Channel, we will be blessed
and more important, we will remain united.
Of course, the devil is not happy to see this cooperation, this beautiful unity that we enjoy.
So we have to be on guard so as to maintain it.
This reminds me of an event in my life many years ago when this lesson was impressed on my mind.
At that time, some of the brothers did become divided and it led to so many problems.
You may remember that we had a video about those events.
Let's watch a clip from that video.
A lot of pressure was on the brothers in Romania.
The Communist Party tried to so distrust among the brothers,
meeting with them separately and telling some brothers one thing, telling other brothers something else.
Sometimes it has happened that an official posed as an interested person and was clever enough to disguise that and pretend to make progress in the truth.
Not only to the point of getting baptized, but even to the point of becoming an elder.
But he was in reality an agent of the secret police with the aim to find out everything about the organization.
So it did lead in one case that brothers started to distrust someone that was actually appointed by headquarters.
And these brothers then separated from the organization that Jehovah used.
And some of them were separated for not just a few years but for decades.
And they were a large number up to 5,000 publishers.
They continued to meet together.
They were preaching and using material that they had left over from earlier years.
But they hardly got any new material to study because they were not in touch with the organization that was used for headquarters.
Attempts to bring the brothers back into the organization were made from time to time.
But it seemed that the brothers from the separated organization did not have sufficient trust.
But when we presented to the leader of the separated group that one from the governing body would come,
he was happy about that and he had enough trust in that case to agree that we should have a meeting and seriously talk about reunification.
And so from the separated group there were brother Albu who was the leader and four of his main elders.
And from our side there was brother Jerez, our translator, and I was part of that group.
Also there were several from the country committee of Romania.
I remember the first night there was a lot of accusations about what the others had done and not done,
which did not create the best spirit. And we mainly listened.
But everybody agreed to meet another night. And the second night obviously Jehovah wanted the brothers to unite again.
And the whole spirit was different and the brothers talked the matters over and clarified some misunderstandings.
And at the end of the second evening I remember the leader of the separate group brother Albu said,
let's do it because if we don't do it now, we may never have another opportunity again.
And so the decision was made. It doesn't happen every day.
There are 5,000 brothers come back to the organization.
From then on all the practical things were put in place to accomplish this reunification.
They were asked to marriage with our congregations. And it also took a lot of humility on their part.
But they were willing to do it. So they were really brothers in their heart and loved the truth.
And so the reunification was accomplished. And it was a wonderful victory for Jehovah and against Satan.
Reflecting on the experience with the brothers in Romania we can see there could always be misunderstandings among humans.
And there could always be even legitimate complaints about misconduct of some responsible brothers.
But the important thing is never to lose trust that this is Jehovah's organization.
That's where Jehovah's blessing is. Jehovah sees it all.
Jehovah uses his Holy Spirit to keep the organization together.
And what he wants to have accomplished will happen.
And if we work with the Holy Spirit then Jehovah will bless our efforts and it will be successful to his praise.
Of course these challenges were not unique to the brothers in Romania.
Similar challenges occurred in other countries that were behind the iron curtain including Czechoslovakia, Russia and Ukraine.
So what have we learned in this update?
Jehovah's organization is on the move.
Even during this pandemic we see strong evidence that Jehovah's spirit is blessing and moving ahead the preaching and disciples making work.
Despite many challenges, you dear brothers and sisters are working hard to maintain our precious unity.
As a result we are enjoying a spiritual paradise as we work unitingly together.
Satan will continue to try to stir up division even among Jehovah's people.
What can we do to successfully resist his efforts?
Listen to the channel that Jehovah is using, the faithful and discreet slave.
Don't allow yourself to become emotionally involved with the causes of this world, whatever they may be.
There is no doubt that Jehovah will reach to bless all those who support our King Jesus Christ and the channel that he is using today.
The faithful and discreet slave.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses this is J.W. Broadcasting.